Add java floor (#1174)
Codecademy/docs: content/java/concepts/math-methods/terms/floor/floor.md

---
Title: 'Floor'
Description: 'Returns the largest integer value that is less than or equal to the argument. When the provided value is either an integer, zero, not a number, or positive or negative infinity.'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags: 

>   - 'Documentation'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - 'Documentation'
  - 'Numbers'
```

CatalogContent: 
  - 'learn-java/'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`Math.floor()`** method included in the `Math` class returns the largest integer value that is less than or equal to the argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`Math.floor()`** method returns the largest integer value that is less than or equal to the argument.
```

> ## Syntax
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Syntax

```

```pseudo

>     Math.floor(x); // or passing values of variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Math.floor(x);
```

```

> The return value is the same as `num` under the following conditions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `num` parameter can either be a floating-point value or a variable that points to a floating-point value. The return value is the same as `num` under the following conditions:
```

- `num` is already an integer.
- `num` is `NaN`, infinity, or zero (positive or negative).

## Example 1

In the case of double values, `Math.floor()` returns the next integer value below the provided double value. In the case of integers provided, these will return the same value as provided:

> ```pseudo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```java
```

Author: @Dusch4593 in the first review you asked for these to be pseudo:
> Let's use ```pseudo code blocks for the "Syntax" section. 😄
Just want to double check before reversing the previous change.

Reviewer: @J0hnRJr This code block is not in the "Syntax" section; it is in the "Example 1" section and it should feature a \```java code block.

\```pseudo code blocks are strictly meant for describing the syntax of something as opposed to showcasing example of that something being applied.

>     Math.floor(3.9); // returns the integer 3
>     Math.floor(1); // returns the integer 1
>     Math.floor(0); // returns the integer 0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Example.java
public class Example {
  public static void main(String args[]) {
    System.out.println(Math.floor(-3.9));
    System.out.println(Math.floor(1.0001));
    System.out.println(Math.floor(0));
  }
}
```

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This will produce the following output:

```

And then let's add a \```shell snippet that looks like this:

```shell
-4.0
1.0
0.0
```

## Example 2

> Values that are not a number will return the NaN value. Infinite values will return infinity:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example features unsuccessful calls to the `.floor()` method:
```

Author: used `Math.floor()` in place of `.floor()` and added the suggestion to commit [db80c90e](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/pull/1174/commits/db80c90ea1286c0668b1bea74b1901fd8f74437e)

> ```pseudo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```pseudo
```

Reviewer: @J0hnRJr Haha yes, my mistake. 😂 Let's change to \```java

>     Math.floor(2.0 % 0); // returns NaN
>     Math.floor(Double.POSITIVE_INFINITY); // returns Infinity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
public class Example {
  public static void main(String args[]) {
    System.out.println(Math.floor(2.0 % 0));
    System.out.println(Math.floor(Double.POSITIVE_INFINITY));
  }
}
```

And then underneath let's add the following sentence:

> This will produce the following output:

And then a \```shell snippet that looks like this:

```shell
NaN
Infinity
```

Author: Implemented in commit [b59b2e74](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/pull/1174/commits/b59b2e741d9151889488652b2133242ccf23f1f2)

---
Title: 'Floor'
Description: 'Returns the largest integer value that is less than or equal to the argument. When the provided value is either an integer, zero, not a number, or positive or negative infinity.'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags: 
  - 'Documentation'
CatalogContent: 
  - 'learn-java/'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`.floor()`** method included in the `Math` class returns the largest integer value that is less than or equal to the argument.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **`Math.floor()`** method included in the `Math` class returns the largest integer value that is less than or equal to the argument.
```

## Syntax

> When the provided value is either an integer, zero, not a number, or positive or negative infinity.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what you are trying to say here.

Author: I removed this line as it was already stated further down in the Syntax section.

```pseudo
    Math.floor(x); // or passing values of variables
```

The return value is the same as `num` under the following conditions:

- `num` is already an integer.
- `num` is `NaN`, infinity, or zero (positive or negative).

## Example 1

> In the case of double values, `.floor()` returns the next integer value below the provided double value. In the case of integers provided, these will return the same value as provided:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the case of double values, `Math.floor()` returns the next integer value below the provided double value. In the case of integers provided, these will return the same value as provided:
```

```pseudo
    Math.floor(3.9); // returns the integer 3
    Math.floor(1); // returns the integer 1
    Math.floor(0); // returns the integer 0
```

## Example 2

Values that are not a number will return the NaN value. Infinite values such as one divided by zero will return infinity:

```pseudo
    Math.floor(2.0 % 0); // returns NaN

>     Math.floor(1 / 0); // returns Infinity

Reviewer 2: This doesn't return infinity. This causes an `ArithmeticException` to be thrown.

Author: I changed the provided example value to one I tested which produces the result Infinity.

---
Title: 'Floor'
Description: 'Returns the largest integer value that is less than or equal to the argument. When the provided value is either an integer, zero, not a number, or positive or negative infinity.'
Subjects: 
    -'Code Foundations'
    -'Computer Science'
Tags: 
    - 'Documentation'
CatalogContent: 

>   - 'learn-java/static-methods-of-the-math-class'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - 'learn-java'
  -  'paths/computer-science'
```

Just the parent directory of the free course slug is sufficient. Let's also include a paid path/course slug. 😄

Author: Implemented suggested change.

---

> The static function **`.floor()`** included in the `Math` class returns the largest integer value that is less than or equal to the argument. When the provided value is either an integer, zero, not a number, or positive or negative infinity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`.floor()`** method returns the largest integer value that is less than or equal to the argument.
```

I think the information in the second sentence fits better in the "Syntax" section.

Author: This is moved to the Syntax section now.

> ## Syntax
> The Math package can be imported and utilized as shown below

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Syntax

The Math package can be imported and utilized as shown below

```

For headers and code blocks, let's make sure we have an empty newline above _and_ below it. Can we make this edit throughout the rest of this file?

Author: Yes, I spaced out the code blocks and headers.

> ```java

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```pseudo
```

Let's use \```pseudo code blocks for the "Syntax" section. 😄

Author: Made the change as requested.

>     import java.lang.Math;
> 
>     double x = 1.1;
>     Math.floor(1.1); // passing values directly to the function
>     Math.floor(x); // or passing values of variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Math.floor(x)
```

For the code block in the "Syntax" section, let's try to keep it to 1-2 lines, in most cases. This should be a place to display the general structure of the concept/term being presented.

Author: Suggestion implemented.

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The return value is the same as `num` under the following conditions:

- `num` is already an integer.
- `num` is `NaN`, infinity, or zero (positive or negative).

```

Author: Integrated suggested change.

> ## Example 1

Reviewer: Let's consolidate these into two examples that fit this general structure/format:

## Example 1

[Sentence(s)]

[\```java code block] <--- Successful calls that include negative values.

## Example 2

[Sentence(s)]

[\```java code block] <-- Unsuccessful calls that include `NaN` and Infinity.

Author: Simplified and consolidated examples as suggested.
